herbstluftwm migration guide
============================

This guide describes the list of incompatible changes between the different
herbstluftwm releases and how to migrate scripts and configuration.

0.5.3 to 0.6.0
--------------
// Will be activated as soon as the patches are fixed and re-reverted
//The tag attributes curframe_windex and curframe_wcount have been removed, they
//are replaced by the more general attributes frames.focus.windex
//frames.focus.wcount.

The behaviour of swap_monitors_to_get_tag = 0 has changed. If
swap_monitors_to_get_tag is set to 0, then focus the other monitor if the
desired tag is shown on another monitor. Previously nothing has been done.

0.5.1 to 0.5.2
--------------
The herbstclient completion options changed for bash. If you manually setup the
completion -- e.g. for an alias like hc -- then update the complete line as
follows:

    complete -F _herbstclient_complete -o nospace herbstclient # or hc

0.4.1 to 0.5.0
--------------
herbstclient now returns the exitstatus 9 (HERBST_NEED_MORE_ARGS) instead of 3
(HERBST_INVALID_ARGUMENT) if a command needs more arguments. If an error occurs,
it now outputs an error message to stderr.

The padding arguments have been removed from add_monitor and a monitor name has
been added instead. If you add a monitor with padding, instead of 'hc
add_monitor 1024x768+0+0 1 2 3 4' now use 'hc add_monitor 1024x768+0+0; hc pad N
1 2 3 4'.

As a result from adding monitor names, the output of list_monitors and stack
changes a bit for named monitors. list_padding only outputs the padding for one
monitor now.

The setting focus_follows_shift has been removed. The behaviour now is set like
it were set to 1; the focus always follows the shift now.

0.3 to 0.4
----------
The setting window_gap is now called frame_gap. Simply replace all occurrences
of window_gap by frame_gap in your old scripts (and autostart).

0.2 to 0.3
----------
The setting ignore_class is removed, because this also can be done by rules. You
can replace a line like 'set ignore_class "$foo"' in your autostart by 'rule
class~"$foo" manage=off'

// vim: nowrap ft=asciidoc tw=80
